In the last lecture we saw how we can use these error codes and we also saw that we can add our own
validator.
We checked if the name is invalid the user name but typically you might need to reach out to a web server
to check this.
That however is the asynchronous operation because the response is not coming back instantly.
Instead it just takes a couple of seconds.
So we also kind of need asynchronous validators which are able to wait for a response before.
Well returning true or false.
Is it valid or not.
Turns out we can't create such asynchronous validators So let's create one here in the app component.
I'll name it.
Forbidden e-mails this asynchronous validator also takes decontrol as an argument.
Now we all need to return something here but this will not be an object with an error code and a boolean
in status will be a promise which wraps anything or an observable which wraps anything for the observable.
You need to import it from our X slash observable.
And these are of course two constructs which handle asynchronous Staden that's exactly what this validator
is about.
So here I now want to create a promise in this validator and you promise it will be which returns anything.
And as all promises does receive a function with free and rechecked as arguments we can execute in that
function.
And then that function now one to set a timeout after one and a half seconds I one to return a response
to simulate the fact that we have the asynchronous task like reaching out to a server.
So this will be a function which gets executed after one and a half seconds does anonymous function
near and hearable simply check if control value equals test at task dot com.
Of course you could also check if it's part of an array.
I will simply check for this single e-mail address.
If this is the case validation failed and as in the synchronous valid case this is when I will return
an object with a key value pair with this error code.
Here of course since we are in a promise I don't return I resolve.
And again I reserve resolve does optically whereas say e-mail is forbidden like this.
Set this to true.
And if we pass this check here.
So in the else case that we all have a valid input that we have a valid email address I will simply
resolve knowl.
Now of course we need to return this promise in the end.
So with this we set up our asynchronous validator.
Now we can add it let's add it to the email and here you don't add it in this array of normal validators.
Instead we use the word argument we can pass to form control.
This is asynchronous validator or an array of such validators just like normal validators bad reserve
for the asynchronous ones.
So here I will use my forbidden emails validator.
Again don't executed simply pass the reference and you need to bind this if you plan on using this in
there.
I don't so I don't need to do it here.
Now let's check if it works if we compile this and we inspect the e-mail.
It's invalid if I enter something here.
You see it stays invalid if I enter test to closely watch Engy invalid.
Did you see that it changed to Engy pending.
Because it was evaluating the input then it changed to Engy valid.
Now if I remove the two and therefore I will enter an invalid email address because that's the one we're
checking for it again which is 2 pending and then two invalid.
So this is now how the asynchronous validator works.
And of course date this would work with code where you reach out to the Web for example and be correctly
there for of course see our error message.
So these are asynchronous validators really easy to add when using the reactive approach as you saw